# Subscribe to Events

You **must** first subscribe to begin receiving event data from your Streamer.bot instance.

The [Automatic](#automatic) method, outlined below, is the simplest method to get up and running with real-time data from your Streamer.bot instance.

If you have existing code interacting with the Streamer.bot Websocket API, you may prefer to use the [Manual](#manual) method, as it more closely aligns with your existing workflow.

## Automatic

The Streamer.bot client will automatically handle the required subscription calls to your instance when listeners are registered with`client.on()`.

Subscribe to a specific event, with callback:
```ts
await client.on('Twitch.ChatMessage', (data) => {
  console.log('Twitch Chat:', data);
});
```

You can subscribe to all events of a specific source with `"[sourceName].*"`
```ts
await client.on('Twitch.*', (data) => {
  console.log('Some Twitch Event Data' data);
});
```

If you want to subscribe to **all** event sources & events from Streamer.bot, simply pass `"*"`
```ts
await client.on('*', (data) => {
  console.log('Any Event Data', data);
});
```

You can view all event sources and names [here](/guide/api/events)

## Manual
You can also manually define event subscriptions using the following methods.

::alert{type="info"}
These methods all support the legacy [Event Subscription Format](/guide/api/events#event-subscription-type) which the Streamer.bot WebSocket API expects.
::

### On Connect

Define the events subscriptions you need when initializing your client.

You can subscribe to all events with `"*"` or pass a configuration object:

```ts
// Creating a new client and automatically subscribing to all events from Streamer.bot
const client = new StreamerbotClient({
  subscribe: '*'
});

// Creating a new client and automatically subscribing to specific events
const client = new StreamerbotClient({
  subscribe: {
    'Twitch': ['ChatMessage']
  }
});
```

### Subscribe Method

The `client.subscribe()` method interacts directly with the Streamer.bot WebSocket API.

You can subscribe to all events with `"*"` or pass a configuration object:

```ts
// Subscribe to all events from Streamer.bot
await client.subscribe('*');

// Subscribe to specific events
await client.subscribe({
  'Twitch': ['ChatMessage']
});
```

### Unsubscribe Method

Manually unsubscribe from any existing event subscriptions.

The `client.unsubscribe()` method accepts the same format as the [Subscribe](#subscribe-method).

```ts
// Unsubscribe to all events from Streamer.bot
await client.unsubscribe('*');

// Unsubscribe from specific events
await client.subscribe({
  'Twitch': ['ChatMessage']
});
```